## Getting Started

```bash
make
make run TYPE=B IN=input.txt OUT=out.txt KEY=key.txt MODE=E
```

First argument specifies the Cipher Type.

It will be either 'B' or 'S' (without the quotes).
B means you will use your Block cipher functionalities.
S means you will use your Stream cipher functionalities.

Error Checking: Your program should terminate graciously if anything other than a 'B' or an 'S' is given as an argument. The exit status of your program should be 1, indicating that your program encountered an invalid argument. The error message generated by your program should be - "Invalid Function Type" (without the quotes).

Second argument is the Input File Path.
The plaintext input file for the encryption mode will be in ASCII format.

Error Checking: Your program should terminate graciously (with exit status 1) with an appropriate error message if the input file does not exist. The error message generated by your program should be - "Input File Does Not Exist" (without the quotes).

Third argument defines the Output File Path. It will be specified by the user of your program.
The specified output file should be created by your program and your program should write the encrypted ciphertext or decrypted plaintext to the specified output file.

Fourth argument is the Key File Path.
The key file contains the symmetric key in ASCII format (e.g.: "COMPUTER76543210").
The key size for Block Cipher would be 16 bytes. Each character in the key file is considered 1 byte. So, the key file will contain 16 characters for the block cipher.
The keysize for Stream Cipher can be of any length.
Your program should read in the contents of the key file and use it to encrypt the provided plaintext or decrypt the provided ciphertext.
The key file will not contain a terminating "\n" (newline) character.
Error Checking: Your program should terminate graciously (with exit status 1) with an appropriate error message if the key file does not exist. The error message generated by your program should be - "Key File Does Not Exist" (without the quotes).

Fifth argument indicates the Mode of Operation.
It can either be 'E' for encryption or 'D' for decryption (without the quotes).
You can use the same encryption or decryption module for stream cipher. But it does not apply for block cipher as explained below in the 'Description of the Algorithms' section.

In the encryption mode, you will encrypt a plaintext using the key found in the key file and produce a ciphertext. Your ciphertext output will be evaluated against the output produced by the TAs' program with the same key.
Similarly, in the decryption mode, your program is expected to decrypt a ciphertext, with the key found in the key file, and produce a plaintext, which will also be evaluated against the output produced by the TAs' program with the same key.
Error Checking: Your program should terminate graciously if anything other than a 'E' or an 'D' is given as an argument. The exit status of your program should be 1, indicating that your program encountered an invalid argument. The error message generated by your program should be - "Invalid Mode Type" (without the quotes).